---
layout: post
title: Thoughts for the day
tags:
- geekery
- copyright
- internet
- news
- ted
- new tech
- statistics
---
<p>Cool new things pop up everyday - and sometimes take a while to be noticed:</p>

<dl>
<dt><a href="http://www.nature.com/news/2009/090520/full/news.2009.496.html">New five dimension DVDs could store 2000 movies</a></dt>
<dd>Scientists at Swinburne University of Technology (from Melbourne, Australia!) have found a way to use the location (x,y axis, dimensions one and two), layer (3rd dimension), reflected laser wavelength (4th dimension) and polarization (5th dimension) of a special material to store information. Min Gu suggested the idea, and colleague James Chon came up with an "ideal material [that] contains gold, rod-shaped nanoparticles of different sizes and orientations." Gold nanoparticles are <a href="http://health.howstuffworks.com/gold-nanotech.htm">quite versatile</a>, they are also being used to <a href="http://nano.cancer.gov/news_center/nanotech_news_2006-04-10a.asp">develop</a> <a href="http://web.mit.edu/newsoffice/2009/gold-cancer-0504.html">cancer treatments</a>, new <a href="http://www.physorg.com/news90675407.html">memory devices</a> and <a href="http://www.nanoprobes.com/ImgGold.html">improve x-rays</a>.</dd>

<dt><a href="http://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/larry_lessig_says_the_law_is_strangling_creativity.html">Larry Lessig on laws that choke creativity</a> and are creating a generation that does not respect laws</dt>
<dd>
Lessig's presentation has some important points, including the loss of a read-write culture to "infernal machines", and the recurring "terrors" of the content industries in the form of new technologies. The most important point is towards the end - the realisation that young people live what is considered a normal life (in developed countries) constantly against the law. Merely by trying to create and generate culture, laws are broken. And this is resulting in a <a href="http://freepirate.blogspot.com/2007/11/outlaw-kids.html">real lack of respect or faith in the law</a>. John Tehranian in 2007 wrote a paper - <i><a href="http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1029151&rec=1&srcabs=1140217">Infringement Nation: Copyright Reform and the Law/Norm Gap</a></i> (which if you <a href="http://www.google.com.au/search?q=Tehranian_Infringement_Nation.pdf">search for on Google</a> now brings up mostly torrent files - the <a href="http://www.turnergreen.com/publications/Tehranian_Infringement_Nation.pdf">original link</a> is dead). It chronicles the day of an average 21st Century internet user. Who by the end of the day has amassed a $12.45 million liability. IN a day. And this was in 2007. How much proof do we need that change is required?
</dd>

<dt><a href="http://www.news.com.au/technology/story/0,28348,25516038-5014239,00.html">Games played by Australians from varied walks of life</a></dt>

<dd>This story on News.com.au is good news. Gaming is gaining popularity with a range of Australians, not just hardcore gamers or young males. But the <a href="http://www.ieaa.com.au/research/IA9%20-%20Interactive%20Australia%202009%20Full%20Report.pdf">source for this story</a> troubles me. Apart from quoting a report from October 2008, I have similar issues to <a href="http://amongthedust.blogspot.com/2008/10/interactive-australia-2009-report.html">Greg Tannahill</a> - where is the link to the report? He also has a very good summary of the more interesting statistics - from having read the report (and not just the summary). The methodologies are <a href="http://www.kotaku.com.au/2008/10/are_the_interactive_australia_2009_results_too_good/">posted on Kotaku</a>.</dd>
</dl>
