---
layout: post
title: Where are the Australian public data APIs?
tags:
- internet
- content
- web service
- REST
- programming
---
There is a lot of data in the world, and much of it is available on the web. But not in a format that is useful for making mash-ups and other applications that build on individual data sources to increase the value of each one. Especially in Australia.<br>
<br>
What about an open, standardised way (think REST using JSON) to access <a href="http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/web+pages/statistics?opendocument?utm_id=LN">Australian Bureau of Statistics</a> data? A huge range of information - just think of the possibilities... display the data as a graph, combine it with news articles. <br>
<br>
How about <a href="http://forums.mactalk.com.au/678902-post1.html"public transport information</a>? It could easily be put on phones, combined with events to give great information about how to get to places. <a href="http://maps.google.com/help/maps/transit/partners/">Google</a> will also help to get more people using public transport, if it was freely available on Google Maps.<br>
<br>
There is already a lot of information available in other countries. More and more data is being made available in the <a href="http://www.showusabetterway.co.uk/call/data.html">UK</a>. <a href="http://www.programmableweb.com/apis/directory/1?sort=category">Thousands</a> of APIs are available for Mapping, Messageing, Music, Financial info, Social, Video, Photos, Email, and much more.<br>
<br>
Easy ways to access information that is already publicly available can only be a good thing. There's always a better way to display data, and who knows how the data could be combined to produce useful applications.
