---
layout: post
title: Selling a desktop PC
tags:
- desktop
- hardware
- sell
- laptop
---
<p>
<strong>Update: I'm not so keen on selling it now.</strong>
</p>
<p>I've decided to migrate from a desktop to a laptop, so I'm selling my desktop PC. I've used it for work (software development) and gaming - has served me very well and should be more than enough for quite a few years yet. Here's the specs. Please note that:
</p>

<ul>
<li>Does not include hard drives, monitors, speakers or keyboard.</li>
<li>I bought and assembled everything in May 2010.</li>
<li>I'm not selling individual components separately. It's all assembled and ready to go.</li>
<li>You'll need to pick it up. I'll take this into account in the price I'll willing to sell it for.</li>
<li>All components work. In the interests of full disclosure, there seems to be irregular drop-outs when using the motherboard's Ethernet.</li>
<li>I'd like to be sure that it works for you, and if you have issues I'm willing to provide some help, within reason.</li>
</ul>

<p>Contact me via twitter (<a href="https://twitter.com/cofiem">@cofiem</a>) or leave a comment if you're interested in buying. The total cost when I bought these was $1,840 all up (bought from Umart).</p>

<ul>
<li><strong>[Case]</strong> CoolerMaster RC-932-KKNI HAF Black Case (Bought for: <strong>$206.00</strong>)</li>

<li><strong>[Memory]</strong> G Skill 6G(3x2G) DDR3 PC12800 9-9-9-24 F3-12800CL9T-6GBNQ (Bought for: <strong>$205.00</strong>).</li>

<li><strong>[Fan]</strong> Noctua NH-U12P Special Edition SE2 (Bought for: <strong>$95.00</strong>.)</li>

<li><strong>[DVD Drive]</strong> LiteON IHAS324SATA DVD-RW 24X Black Retail (Bought for: <strong>$33.00</strong>).</li>

<li><strong>[Video Card]</strong> Sapphire HD5870 1G GDDR5 PCIE 2D HDMI DP (Bought for: <strong>$499.00</strong>.)</li>

<li><strong>[Motherboard]</strong> Gigabyte GA-X58A-UD3R X58+ICH10R QPI 6.4GT/s DDR3 2000 PCI-Ex16 SATAII (Bought for: <strong>$249.00</strong>.)</li>

<li><strong>[CPU]</strong> Intel Core i7 930 Processor LGA1366 2.8GHz 8MB Cache CPU (Bought for: <strong>$348.00</strong>.)</li>

<li><strong>[Power]</strong> Corsair TX-850 ATX Power Supply 140mm fan (Bought for: <strong>$205.00</strong>.)</li>
</ul>
