"The myth of the pre-eminence of private sector efficiency for running essential services-and, in particular, for running natural monopoly infrastructure-should be set aside today, before this bill is committed to the vote, for the shallow and self-serving ideological dead-end that it is. Bribing financially stretched state governments to sell assets in return for funding catastrophically expensive urban freeways and tunnels graphically illustrates the coalition's poverty of vision when it comes to infrastructure funding."
"This bill-to put it as plainly as I can-is about bribing state and territory governments to sell off public assets in order to obtain Commonwealth funding."
http://scott-ludlam.greensmps.org.au/content/speeches-parliament/asset-recycling-forces-states-sell-public-assets

"[the Perth light rail project] was very much a cross-party initiative. At about this time last year we were thinking that we had actually managed to pull politics out of the proposal and that the Liberals, Nationals, Greens and Labor were going to be able to get a light rail network built in Western Australia-for the first time since 1958.

What happened? Prime Minister Tony Abbott comes to office and says, 'There will be no public transport under a government I lead,' pulls $5 million off the table and instead we get this obscene $925 million contribution—which effectively gets the project over the line and makes it bankable—for a private freight highway through a wetland."

"The government believe that anything that is not nailed down should be privatised. They never saw an urban freeway that they did not like, and they have this strange loathing of public transport. Maybe you spend your entire time being carted around in Comcars and chauffeur driven limousines and do not feel the need for public transport. It should be user-pays, shouldn't it? That loathing for public transport such that you would abolish projects already afoot is stranger to me than understanding how the coal industry could have just bought and written your climate policy for you."